# RAPIDO_project

## Description of the project 
RAPIDO (“teleReabilitatione per I mAlati di Parkinson In qualsiasi staDIO”) is a project that was initiated in 2021 from the collaboration between Università Politecnica delle Marche and Università di Verona to respond to the fragilities, faced by territorial healthcare systems dedicated to PD, recently revealed by COVID-19 emergency. Indeed, due to the many restrictions imposed by the pandemic, PD patients could get any more access to fundamental visits and cares, including rehabilitation. Therefore, territorial healthcare facilities realized that was necessary to find out new operative modalities to ensure PD subjects a sufficient and adequate assistance. In this context, RAPIDO represents an innovative tool to cope with these changed needs.
This project aims to develop a telerehabilitation and telemonitoring system destinated to people suffering from PD, guaranteeing an effective integration, thereby differentiating from many other analogous systems that usually supply telemonitoring services independently from the training ones, and vice versa. In this way, it is possible to provide, via a single platform, telemonitoring and telerehabilitation tools that can be easily accessed by both patients and direct assistance operators involved in the treatment of PD and in at-home rehabilitation. 
The integrated telerehabilitation and telemonitoring system proposed by RAPIDO is composed by suitable wearable and noninvasive sensors that collect patient-related data which is then partially and locally processed by a specific app (accessible both from mobile devices and personal computers), thereby making the elaborated outcomes available to clinicians. So that, they can possibly implement some changes in the rehabilitative schedule in order to adapt it to the specific needs of each patient. Thanks to these wearables, it is also possible to monitor the main subjects’ vital parameters during the rehabilitative treatment providing important feedbacks on the training intensity and reducing the risk of adverse effects. Furthermore, it is believed that this system may provide a significant contribution in the improvement of the patients’ quality of life, promoting economic sustainability of long-term management of PD and reducing the consumption of health resources, as well as caregivers stress and responsibility. Indeed, it is reasonable to think that the empowerment of patients may correspond to a reduction of complications and a positive impact on the progression of disability. In particular, by promoting an active lifestyle it is possible to pursue a slowdown in functional decline, while by improving the health literacy of patients and caregivers, greater resilience is expected towards functional deficits (freezing, postural instability, dysphagia) as well as an effective implementation of adaptive strategies that prevent falls, ab ingestis pneumonia, and malnutrition, to name the most serious complications.

## Purpose of the study 
The conducted analysis aims to demonstrate if the proposed telerehabilitation protocol has brought some improvement in the patient health condition 

## Data Analysis 

### Data Acquisition 
Real-life raw data has been collected by means of Garmin Vivosmart 4 smartwatch, wear by each patients during the entire period in which they have been training according to the assigned telerehabilitation protocol. 

### Data Processing
Data processing involves an initial phase, required to create dataframes starting from the many JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) files acquired by Garmin smartwatch, which is then followed by a second step, where statistical analysis has been performed in order to determine the features that have possibly changed during the telerehabilitation protocol. 

### Data Clustering 
At this point of the analysis, it becomes evident the necessity to find out an effective method that could demonstrate possible changes in the selected features during successive weeks of telerehabilitation. It has been though that the possible evolution of these variables could have brought to a redistribution of the available data points in a certain number of separated groups, which possibly reflect a specific weekly range. 
